3836 terraform provider (#3914)
astronomer/docs: astro/terraform-provider-get-started.md

- Always set an expiration date for your API tokens.
- Always [rotate your API tokens](workspace-api-tokens.md#rotate-a-workspace-api-token) for enhanced security.

## Step 2 Apply the provider

1. Retrieve your **Organization ID** from the Astro UI by clicking on your **Organization Settings** in your **Organization Details** section.

2. Create a `main.tf` file with the following code. This code example declares the Astro provider as a requirement and includes the Organization ID for your Astro resources. You can add your own custom terraform commands or use one of the example scenarios shared in the [Astro Terraform Provider Github Repo](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/tree/main/examples/scenarios).

The following example sets up a new Workspace with a hosted Deployment.

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    astro = {
      source = "astronomer/astro"
    }
  }
}

provider "astro" {
  organization_id = "<your-astro-organization-id>"
}

# Create a Workspace
resource "astro_workspace" "my_workspace" {
  name                  = "My Terraform Workspace"
  description           = "Managed by Terraform"
  cicd_enforced_default = true

> }

Reviewer: nit spacing

```suggestion
}

```

  environment_variables   = []
  worker_queues = [{
    name               = "default"
    is_default         = true
    astro_machine      = "A5"
    max_worker_count   = 10
    min_worker_count   = 0
    worker_concurrency = 1
  }]
}

```

If you want to use a different example Terraform file, the [`workspace_per_team.tf`](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) example shows how to create three [Astro Teams](manage-teams.md) and development, staging, and production Deployments for each.

3. Using the API Token you made in Step 1, run the following commands to apply the provider to your Astro implementation.

```bash
export ASTRO_API_TOKEN=<your-api-token>
terraform init # only needed the first time - initializes a working directory and downloads the necessary provider plugins and modules and sets up the backend for storing your infrastructure's state
terraform plan # creates a plan that make your resources match your configuration
terraform apply # performs a plan, just like terraform plan does, and also carries out the planned changes to each resource by using the relevant infrastructure provider's API
```

> After `terraform apply` completes, Terraform either prints that your configuration was successful or it shares error codes that includes how to resolve any problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After `terraform apply` completes, Terraform either prints that your configuration was successful or it prints error logging that includes information on how to resolve your problem.
```

---
title: 'Get started with Astro Terraform Provider'
sidebar_label: 'Get Started'
id: terraform-provider-get-started
description: Get started using the Astro Terraform Provider to work with your Astro implementations.
---

:::publicpreview
:::

> To use [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) with Astro, you must authorize the [Astro Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/astronomer/astro/0.3.0) to access and modify your Astro Organization resources. Then, you can programmatically update your Astro Organization using Terraform files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) with Astro, you must authorize the [Astro Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/astronomer/astro/latest) to access and modify your Astro Organization resources. Then, you can programmatically update your Astro Organization using Terraform files.
```

> To use [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) with Astro, you must set up authorize the [Astro Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/astronomer/astro/0.3.0) to access and modify your Astro Organization resources. Then, you can programattically update your Astro Organization using Terraform files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) with Astro, you must authorize the [Astro Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/astronomer/astro/0.3.0) to access and modify your Astro Organization resources. Then, you can programmatically update your Astro Organization using Terraform files.
```

## Prerequisites

> - [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) version 1.21 or higher

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install) version 1.0 or higher
- Astro Workspace Owner [user permissions](user-permissions.md)

## Step 1: Create an API Token

> You can use any of the following credentials to authenticate in an automated process, but an Organization API token is recommended:
> 
> - A Deployment API token. See [Deployment API tokens](deployment-api-tokens.md).
> - A Workspace API token. See [Create a Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md).
> - An Organization API token. See [Create an Organization API token](organization-api-tokens.md).

Reviewer: Since org API token is recommended it should be first

```suggestion
You can use any of the following credentials to authenticate in an automated process, but an Organization API token is recommended:

- An Organization API token. See [Create an Organization API token](organization-api-tokens.md).
- A Deployment API token. See [Deployment API tokens](deployment-api-tokens.md).
- A Workspace API token. See [Create a Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md).
```

Author: The order of this list was in increasing scope, if we put organization first, I think workspace should still be in the middle, otherwise it seems random.

When you create an API token for your environment, keep the following best practices in mind:

- Always give your API token the minimum permissions required to perform an action. This improves control and security over your Astro components. For example, instead of creating an Organization API token to automate actions across two  Workspaces, create a separate Workspace API token for each Workspace.

- Always set an expiration date for your API tokens.
- Always [rotate your API tokens](workspace-api-tokens.md#rotate-a-workspace-api-token) for enhanced security.

## Step 2 Apply the provider

1. Retrieve your **Organization ID** from the Astro UI by clicking on your **Organization Settings** in your **Organization Details** section.

> 2. Create a `main.tf` file with the following code. This code example declares the Astro provider as a requirement, and includes the Organization ID for your Astro resources. You can add your own custom terraform commands, or use one of the example scenarios shared in the [Astro Terraform Provider Github Repo](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/tree/main/examples/scenarios).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Create a `main.tf` file with the following code. This code example declares the Astro provider as a requirement and includes the Organization ID for your Astro resources. You can add your own custom terraform commands or use one of the example scenarios shared in the [Astro Terraform Provider Github Repo](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/tree/main/examples/scenarios).
```

The following example sets up a new Workspace with a hosted Deployment.

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    astro = {
      source = "astronomer/astro"
    }
  }
}

provider "astro" {

>   organization_id = "<you-astro-organization-id>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  organization_id = "<your-astro-organization-id>"
```

}

# Create a Workspace
resource "astro_workspace" "my_workspace" {
  name                  = "My Terraform Workspace"
  description           = "Managed by Terraform"
  cicd_enforced_default = true
}

> # Create a standard Hosted Deployment in that wWrkspace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create a standard Hosted Deployment in that Workspace
```

  contact_emails          = []
  default_task_pod_cpu    = "0.25"
  default_task_pod_memory = "0.5Gi"
  executor                = "CELERY"
  is_cicd_enforced        = true
  is_dag_deploy_enabled   = true
  is_development_mode     = true
  is_high_availability    = false
  resource_quota_cpu      = "10"
  resource_quota_memory   = "20Gi"
  scheduler_size          = "SMALL"
  workspace_id            = astro_workspace.my_workspace.id
  environment_variables   = []
  worker_queues = [{
    name               = "default"
    is_default         = true
    astro_machine      = "A5"
    max_worker_count   = 10
    min_worker_count   = 0
    worker_concurrency = 1
  }]
}

```

If you want to use a different example Terraform file, the [`workspace_per_team.tf`](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) example shows how to create three [Astro Teams](manage-teams.md) and development, staging, and production Deployments for each.

3. Using the API Token you made in Step 1, run the following commands to apply the provider to your Astro implementation.

```bash
export ASTRO_API_TOKEN=<your-api-token>

> terraform init # only needed the first time - initializes a working directory and downloads the necessary provider plugins and modules and setting up the backend for storing your infrastructure's state

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
terraform init # only needed the first time - initializes a working directory and downloads the necessary provider plugins and modules and sets up the backend for storing your infrastructure's state
```

terraform plan # creates a plan that make your resources match your configuration
terraform apply # performs a plan, just like terraform plan does, and also carries out the planned changes to each resource by using the relevant infrastructure provider's API
```

After `terraform apply` completes, Terraform either prints that your configuration was successful or it shares error codes that includes how to resolve any problems.

> 4. (Optional) You can continue to import additional resources or experiment with Terraform using the [Terraform Provider docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/astronomer/astro/latest/docs). After you're done, to prevent any unexpected charges or activity in your account from working with you Terraform example, you can delete any resources you created on Astro by using the following code example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. (Optional) You can continue to import additional resources or experiment with Terraform using the [Terraform Provider docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/astronomer/astro/latest/docs). After you're done, to prevent any unexpected charges or activity in your account from working with your Terraform example, you can delete any resources you created on Astro by using the following code example:
```

---
title: 'Get started with Astro Terraform Provider'
sidebar_label: 'Get Started'
id: terraform-provider-get-started
description: Get started using the Astro Terraform Provider to work with your Astro implementations.
---

To use Terraform with Astro, you must set up authorize the Astro Terraform Provider to access and modify your Astro Organization resources. Then, you can programattically update your Astro Organization using Terraform files.

## Prerequisites

- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) version 1.21 or higher
- [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install) version 1.0 or higher

> - Astro Organization Owner [user permissions](user-permissions.md)

Author: Is this correct?

Reviewer 2: its best to be org owner but you can be any role that can create a token
and depending on the token, what resources/data sources you can use will be limited

for example, if you use a `WORKSPACE_ADMIN` workspace API token then you can only create deployment resources

this is why we recommend using an org owner API token so you can use every resource

Reviewer 4: maybe we shouldn't make org owner a prerequisite. Workspace owners should be able to try it out wouldn't want them to thing they couldn't

- Always give your API token the minimum permissions required to perform an action. This improves control and security over your Astro components. For example, instead of creating an Organization API token to automate actions across two  Workspaces, create a separate Workspace API token for each Workspace.

- Always set an expiration date for your API tokens.
- Always [rotate your API tokens](workspace-api-tokens.md#rotate-a-workspace-api-token) for enhanced security.

## Step 2 Apply the provider

1. Retrieve your **Organization ID** from the Astro UI by clicking on your **Organization Settings** in your **Organization Details** section.

2. Create a `main.tf` file with the following code. This code example declares the Astro provider as a requirement, and includes the Organization ID for your Astro resources. You can add your own custom terraform commands, or use one of the examples shared in the [Astro Terraform Provider Github Repo]

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    astro = {
      source = "astronomer/astro"
    }
  }
}

provider "astro" {
  organization_id = "<you-astro-organization-id>"
}

> # your terraform commands here

Author: I think instead of this placeholder we should have some basic terraform commands. What would be a good hello world type command to have users make?

Reviewer 2: this is probably the basic `hello world` example although the deployment is specific to `hosted` orgs

```suggestion
# create a workspace
resource "astro_workspace" "my_workspace" {
  name                  = "My Terraform Workspace"
  description           = "Managed by Terraform"
  cicd_enforced_default = true
}

# create a standard deployment in that workspace
resource "astro_deployment" "my_standard_deployment" {
  name                    = "My Terraform Deployment"
  description             = "Managed by Terraform"
  type                    = "STANDARD"
  cloud_provider          = "AWS"
  region                  = "us-east-1"
  contact_emails          = []
  default_task_pod_cpu    = "0.25"
  default_task_pod_memory = "0.5Gi"
  executor                = "CELERY"
  is_cicd_enforced        = true
  is_dag_deploy_enabled   = true
  is_development_mode     = true
  is_high_availability    = false
  resource_quota_cpu      = "10"
  resource_quota_memory   = "20Gi"
  scheduler_size          = "SMALL"
  workspace_id            = astro_workspace.my_workspace.id
  environment_variables   = []
  worker_queues = [{
    name               = "default"
    is_default         = true
    astro_machine      = "A5"
    max_worker_count   = 10
    min_worker_count   = 0
    worker_concurrency = 1
  }]

}

```

```

If you want to use an example Terraform file, the [`workspace_per_team.tf`](https://github.com/astronomer/terraform-provider-astro/blob/main/examples/scenarios/workspace_per_team.tf) example shows how to create three [Astro Teams](manage-teams.md) and development, staging, and production Deployments for each.

> 3. Using the API Token you made in Step 1, run the following commands to apply the provider to your Astro implementation.

Author: This doesn't feel like it's really the last step? How do users confirm that it was successful? What happens if it doesn't work - are there any quick troubleshooting recommendations we can make?

Reviewer 2: step 2 might be to export the token so it can be used to manage terraform
there are a few ways to do it
1. `export ASTRO_API_TOKEN=<token>` in the terminal
2. you can put it in this part of the code
```
provider "astro" {
  organization_id = "<you-astro-organization-id>"
  token = "<token>"
}
```
3. do nothing and terraform will prompt you for it

Most people familiar with terraform will know which way they want since it will probably be part of their CI process but for people that never worked with it, they may not

Reviewer 2: oh nvm i see it is in the section just under this so you can ignore the above comment

Reviewer 2: also once you run the `terraform apply` terraform will output that it was successful or if there are errors, the error messages should be quite clear about how to fix the issues they ran into

Reviewer 2: the last step would probably be either to
1. import existing resources
2. create more resources by looking at the docs and seeing what they want to add

Reviewer 4: We could also mention that they can run `terraform destroy` to destroy all the resources they created when they are done with them

```bash
export ASTRO_API_TOKEN=<your-api-token>
terraform init # only needed the first time - initializes a working directory and downloads the necessary provider plugins and modules and setting up the backend for storing your infrastructure's state
terraform plan # creates a plan that make your resources match your configuration
terraform apply # performs a plan, just like terraform plan does, and also carries out the planned changes to each resource by using the relevant infrastructure provider's API
```

> Now that you've initialited a working directory and downloaded required provider plugins and modules, you can start updating your Astro Workspace or Organizations with Terraform.

Author: I don't love this wrap-up but I wasn't sure what else to say. 

we can start this off with saying "the purpose of this is to test the terraform provider with your astro instance." or something

Reviewer 2: agree with your comment
